Psalm 56 Be merciful unto me, O God, for man would swallow
me up. He fighting daily oppresseth me. Mine enemies would daily swallow me up, for they
be many that fight against me, O thou most high. What time I am afraid I will trust in thee.
In God I will praise his word. In God I have put my trust. I will not fear what flesh can do unto me.
Every day they rest my words. All their thoughts are against me for evil.
They gather themselves together. They hide themselves. They mark my steps when they wait
for my soul. Shall they escape by iniquity? In thine anger cast down the people, O God.
Thou tellest my wanderings. Put thou my tears into thy bottle. Are they not in thy book?
When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back. This I know, for God is with me.
In God will I praise his word. In the Lord will I praise his word.
In God have I put my trust. I will not be afraid what man can do unto me.
Thy vows are upon me, O God. I will render praises unto thee. For thou hast delivered
my soul from death. Wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God
in the light of the living? Psalm 57
Be merciful unto me, O God. Be merciful unto me. For my soul trusteth in thee.
Yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be overpassed.
I will cry unto God most high, unto God that performeth all things for me.
He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up.
Selah God shall send forth his mercy and his truth. My soul is among lions, and I lie even
among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows,
and their tongue a sharp sword. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens. Let thy glory be above
all the earth. They have prepared a net for my steps. My soul is bowed down. They have
digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah
My heart is fixed. O God, my heart is fixed. I will sing and give praise. Awake up my glory,
psaltery and harp. I myself will awake early. I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people.
I will sing unto thee among the nations. For thy mercy is great unto the heavens,
and thy truth unto the clouds. Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens.
Let thy glory be above all the earth. Psalm 58
Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? Do ye judge uprightly,
O ye sons of men? Yea, in heart ye work wickedness. Ye weigh the violence of your
hands in the earth. The wicked are estranged from the womb. They go astray as soon as they are born,
speaking lies. Their poison is like the poison of a serpent. They are like the deaf adder that
stopeth her ear, which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely.
Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth. Break out the great teeth of the young lions, O Lord.
Let them melt away as waters which run continually. When he bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows,
let them be as cut in pieces, as a snail which melteth. Let every one of them pass away,
like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun. Before your pots can feel the
thorns, he shall take them away, as with a whirlwind both living and in his wrath.
The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance. He shall wash his feet in the blood
of the wicked, so that a man shall say, Verily, there is a reward for the righteous. Verily,
he is a God that judgeth in the earth. Psalm 59
Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God. Defend me from them that rise up against me.
Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men. For lo,
they lie in wait for my soul. The mighty are gathered against me, not for my transgression,
nor for my sin, O Lord. They run and prepare themselves without my fault. Awake to help me,
and behold, thou therefore, O Lord, God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen.
Be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah
They return at evening. They make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city. Behold,
they belt out with their mouth. Swords are in their lips. For who, say they, doth hear?
But thou, O Lord, shalt laugh at them. Thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.
Because of his strength will I wait upon thee. For God is my defense. The God of my mercy shall
prevent me. God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies. Slay them not lest my people forget.
Scatter them by thy power, and bring them down, O Lord, our shield. For the sin of their mouth,
and the words of their lips, let them even be taken in their pride, and for cursing and lying
which they speak. Consume them in wrath. Consume them that they may not be, and let them know that
God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah
And at evening let them return, and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.
Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied. But I will sing of thy
power, yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning. For thou hast been my defense and refuge
in the day of my trouble. Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing. For God is my defense,
and the God of my mercy. Psalm 60
O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased,
O turn thyself to us again, thou hast made the earth to tremble, thou hast broken it,
heal the breaches thereof, for it shaketh. Thou hast showed thy people hard things,
thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment, thou hast given a banner to
them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah
That thy beloved may be delivered, save with thy right hand, and hear me. God hath spoken
in his holiness. I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and meet out the valley of Sukkoth.
Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine. Ephraim also is the strength of mine head.
Judah is my law-giver. Moab is my wash-pot. Over Edom will I cast out my shoe.
Philistia triumph thou because of me. Who will bring me into the strong city?
Who will lead me into Edom? Wilt not thou, O God, which hast cast us off,
and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies?
Give us help from trouble, for vain is the help of man.
Through God we shall do valiantly, for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.
Psalm 61
Hear my cry, O God. Attend unto my prayer. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee.
When my heart is overwhelmed, lead me to the rock that is higher than I.
For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy.
I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever. I will trust in the covered of thy wings.
Selah. For thou, O God, hast heard my vows. Thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy
name. Thou wilt prolong the king's life, and his years as many generations. He shall abide before
God for ever. O prepare mercy and truth which may preserve him. So will I sing praise unto thy name
for ever, that I may daily perform my vows. Psalm 62
Truly my soul waiteth upon God. From him cometh my salvation. He only is my rock and my salvation.
He is my defense. I shall not be greatly moved. How long will ye imagine mischief against a man?
Ye shall be slain, all of you, as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence.
They only consult to cast him down from his excellency. They delight in lies. They bless
with their mouths, but they curse inwardly. Selah. My soul wait thou only upon God. For my
expectation is from him. He only is my rock and my salvation. He is my defense. I shall not be
moved. In God is my salvation and my glory. The rock of my strength and my refuge is in God.
Trust in him at all times ye people. Pour out your heart before him. God is a refuge for us.
Selah. Surely men of low degree are vanity and men of high degree are a lie. To be laid in the
balance they are altogether lighter than vanity. Trust not in oppression and become not vain in
robbery. If riches increase set not your heart upon them. God hath spoken once, twice have I
heard this, that power belongeth unto God. Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy.
For thou renderest to every man according to his work. Psalm 63. O God, thou art my God. Early will
I seek thee. My soul thirsteth for thee. My flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land where
water is. To see thy power and thy glory so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary.
Because thy loving kindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee.
Thus will I bless thee while I live. I will lift up my hands in thy name. My soul shall be satisfied
as with marrow and fatness and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips when I remember
thee upon my bed and meditate on thee in the night watches. Because thou hast been my help.
Therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice. My soul followeth hard after thee.
Thy right hand upholdeth me. But those that seek my soul to destroy it
shall go into the lower parts of the earth. They shall fall by the sword. They shall be a portion
for foxes. But the king shall rejoice in God. Everyone that sweareth by him shall glory.
But the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped. Psalm 64
Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer. Preserve my life from fear of the enemy.
Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked, from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity,
who wet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words,
that they may shoot in secret at the perfect. Suddenly do they shoot at him and fear not.
They encourage themselves in an evil manner. They commune of laying snares privily.
They say, Who shall see them? They search out iniquities. They accomplish a diligent search.
Both the inward thought of every one of them and the heart is deep.
But God shall shoot at them with an arrow. Suddenly shall they be wounded. So they shall
make their own tongue to fall upon themselves. All that see them shall flee away. And all men
shall fear and shall declare the work of God, for they shall wisely consider of his doing.
The righteous shall be glad in the Lord and shall trust in him, and all the upright in heart shall
glory. Psalm 65
Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion, and unto thee shall the vow be performed. O thou that
hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come. Iniquities prevail against me, as for our
aggressions thou shalt purge them away. Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causes to
approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts. We shall be satisfied with the goodness
of thy house, even of thy holy temple. By terrible things and righteousness wilt thou answer us,
O God of our salvation, who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that
are afar off upon the sea, which by his strength setteth fast the mountains, being girded with
power, which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.
They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens. Thou makest the outgoings
of the morning and evening to rejoice. Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it. Thou greatly
enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water. Thou preparest them corn, when thou hast
so provided for it. Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly. Thou settlest the furrows thereof.
Thou makest it soft with showers. Thou blessest the springing thereof. Thou crownest the year
with thy goodness, and thy paths drop fatness. They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness,
and the little hills rejoice on every side. The pastures are clothed with flocks. The valleys
also are covered over with corn. They shout for joy. They also sing. Psalm 66.
Make a joyful noise unto God all ye lands. Sing forth the honor of his name. Make his praise
glorious. Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! Through the greatness of thy power
shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee. All the earth shall worship thee,
and shall sing unto thee. They shall sing to thy name. Say la.
Come and see the works of God. He is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.
He turned the sea into dry land. They went through the flood on foot. There did we rejoice in him.
He ruleth by his power forever. His eyes behold the nations. Let not the rebellious
exalt themselves. Say la. O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be
heard, which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved. For thou, O God, hast
proved us. Thou hast tried us, as silver is tried. Thou broadest us into the net. Thou
laitst affliction upon our loins. Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads.
We went through fire and through water, but thou broadest us out into a wealthy place.
I will go into thy house with burnt offerings. I will pay thee my vows, which my lips have uttered,
and my mouth hath spoken when I was in trouble. I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of
fatlings. With the incense of rams I will offer bullocks with goats. Say la.
Come and hear all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul.
I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue. If I regard iniquity
in my heart, the Lord will not hear me. But verily God hath heard me. He hath attended to the voice
of my prayer. Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.